So we've created our Provide Question API, which in this case we're saying creating a retrofit builder
and passing integration converter and that will convert the JSON into serialized JSON object, which
then are internally connected to our actual to our models.
Your question in question item.
So all of that, it's going to be done internally.
Otherwise, if we had to do this ourselves would have to create a lot of different classes just to get
things to work.
It's not worth it.
So using a library is always a good idea.
Retrofit fits the bill.
All right.
So what do we do next is we're going to create a repository.
So instead of a repository here, I'm going to right click.
You class, and let's call this question repository as such.
No, because we have hilt, I'm going to inject say at inject constructor, I such and because it's
repository, I need it that question API, because the Question API will know how to go and get that
information that we need, which is the data OK?
Or at least you have this structure that will allow us to do so.
So let's go ahead and imported that inject.
And here I'm going to say private valve and it's going to be an API.
Just call our.
Question API section.
Very good.
All right.
So this is where we then are able to again, if we go back to model, let's go to question if I were
going to invoke this question, I get all questions.
Think of these as a Dow Wright data access object.
That's what really, that's what it is.
We just call this API we could have for a while, call it Dow, because this is what connects directly
to get all questions by invoking the get and go to this and go to this path, which stand in the background
calls retrofit to get the data from our JSON API.
That's what it is, really.
So in our question repository here, this is where, first of all, we get to go and create a private.
Vow here called it's going to be a list of questions.
OK.
And in this case, this is going to be an array list or a list of question item.
Like that?
OK.
And in the beginning, can I just have an empty list as such now, although this will work because indeed
we're getting in a list of question items right from our API.
But we need to think a little bit about what is it that we are trying to get or what other information
we may need, especially when we are dealing with getting information from the internet or getting the
information from anywhere, really data in our applications.
So let me show you something real quick in a little presentation.
So the way things are, we would have an array list of question items as you see there.
So that will be coming from a JSON data source in this case.
Is going to be an API somewhere remotely or could it be in a file or a JSON internally or a JSON file
internally inside of our app or a database?
It doesn't really matter.
So again, that information and then of course, we're expecting to get an array list of questions.
One thing we need to think about is is OK, can we attach a little bit more information to what a data
that we were receiving?
Because at this point here, if we just pass in a list as such a release containing a question item,
it's totally fine.
It works great.
But in this case, we can't add any metadata about the response itself we're getting from the server.
For instance, if there is an exception that happens as the data is being pulled in right or want to
know the status of this process of fetching data from our database or from our data source, I would
just call it right and many other things that we we may want to attach to this array list.
The way things are right now, it's virtually impossible.
You can make it work, but it's going to be.
We'll have to do a little bit more work and necessary work to make it so that we can pass those pieces
of data information that we may need in our interface to know exactly what's going on with this payload
of data that we were receiving.
What do we need to do is to wrap this ArrayList into a different object?
Right?
So in this case, could call it data or exception.
What this does, it can see you have angled brackets there.
What this does is that we can pass first a T in this case going to be generic, which is very convenient
because that means we can pass any Typekit that we want in place of that generic can pass in our list
of question items, which is exactly what we have there, right?
And on top of that, we can then pass a Boolean that we can toggle if loading is true or loading is
false, so that when we transpose this data onto our user interface or composable, we can then extract
that information.
So if it's if load, for instance, is true because we had added that information in our data or we
wrapped everything in the inside of this main object, right then we can extrapolate that information
to say if it's true that it's still loading, then we can show some sort of user show something together
so they know something is still loading if there are problems that happen, for instance, certain exceptions
have happened.
We can also pass them, as you see there.
So now not only can I pass the actual data as I see a free list or could it be a real list of strings
or could be a list of person objects?
Whatever it is, doesn't matter because it's a it's a generic right.
We can also pass the Boolean so we can say OK if it's loading or not, and any other exception.
Also virtually, we can pass any other type we wanted just so we can wrap our array list here because
we know we're getting information from the web or from a data source.
We can wrap it with more metadata or more information around it so we can extrapolate when we are now
using this data.
Into our composable now again, it looks like overkill, because like I said, he could have just we
could have just snapped at a red list item and call it good.
But this process of wrapping our data into another class that allows us to add more data to that class,
right, so we can grab it and get different parts of the data.
It's partially part of the clean architecture.
Let's go ahead and put this data or exception structures so we can see how it all works.
All right.
So we are going to take a little break from our question repository because we need to create another
structure here, write the wrapper class.
So instead of a data, I'm going to right click.
And say coddling classes such as call these data or exception as such.
OK, now we're going to make this a data class because it's just a simple data class data exception.
Now what is that we want to do here?
Now we're going to use generics.
Now I've talked about generics before, but essentially generics allows us to name and play, make our
class as generic as possible, meaning we can pass different types in place when we want to implement
this class.
So for instance, here I'm going to put in side of angle brackets when I put a team and I want to also
put a Boolean and then I'm going to put an E for it to say it's going to be an exception type like this
Kotlin exception.
That's fine.
And then because this is a data class, we don't even need the body.
Let's go ahead and pass in the constructor primary constructor here.
So what I'm going to do?
Well, again, what I'm doing here, I'm just saying this data or S. class data class here would allow
any template type.
So this could be string.
This could be a person type.
This could be any type that we want.
Boolean, of course, is going to be bullying only, and it's going to be of type exception.
That means then this is going to be a wrapper class.
So I'm going to pass here, say VAR for the data field.
I'm going to pass the T make it notable like this.
And for the Boolean here, it's going to be loading.
Or I could see loading.
State doesn't matter.
So loading it's fine.
It's going to be a Boolean type.
OK, Nullarbor.
And it's always know the first and e this is going to be for our exception when I say E!
And also not like that, right?
There we go.
So this is what we are going to use.
And the great thing again about this is that is that whenever we're getting data in this case, in our
question repository here, instead of just passing in a real list of questions like this, we can wrap
of this as I showed it earlier into this data or exception, which means then I can then pass metadata
as I get information.
I can see, for instance, for data property, I'm going to pass any type here.
In this case, it's conveniently we can pass this whole list here of question as this tea type.
That way, then if I want to get the information to show, I can say data or exception dot data.
And I would have access to this list.
What I mean by that now is that we have to change a few things here.
We'll get to wrap.
I'm going to say data or exception.
There we go.
And I can pass all of this.
I can't just remove that, actually.
In our angler brackets there, that's the first data, the tea.
It wasn't finalized like that.
And then I'm going to pass me just a Boolean could be anything and then I'm going to pass an exception.
So this case just going to be exception, calling exception as such.
And then I'm going to just have an open and empty.
An empty constructor like this place in your line, so it's more feasible now we wrapped our ArrayList
question here.
What if we added that inside of our data or exception type so that our list of questions is going to
come as this type, data or exception, which means it's going to have to data if there's data, but
also we can pass a Boolean to say, Oh, it's still loading or not loading and an exception if there
are issues.
So in the next video, we'll continue constructing our question repository here, which really is not
going to require a lot of things because it's a very simple application.
All we doing, just getting information and we're not editing it, we're not deleting, we're not updating,
we're just getting the information from an API.
But this is an important concept.
So I would like you to take a look at this and implement any time you find yourself in a situation where
we're getting data of some sort.
Right?
You wrap that into some structure like it is.
That way you can pass bits of information along with your main information, which in this case is our
ArrayList.